[Music]
nine signs that you're eating too much
sugar most people would agree that sweet
mouth-watering sugar makes anything you
put it on tastes way better your toast a
little bland sprinkle on some sugar
coffee too bitter sugar we'll fix that
up but what might seem like innocent
pleasure can actually cause a lot of
serious health issues when we put too
much of the stuff in our body luckily
our system gives us crystal clear signs
when we've crossed that line so let's
break it down
[Music]
number nine muscle and joint pain
have you been skipping out on regular
walks gardening or exercise lately
because you're in pain
well this pain could be a warning from
your body that you're consuming too much
sugar you see large amounts of sugar in
your diet cause your cells to secrete
inflammatory messengers into your
bloodstream in order to break down all
that excess sugary glucose basically all
these complicated biochemical processes
that come from consuming too much sugar
result in muscle aches and pains joint
stiffness and swelling not to mention
you could end up with arthritis
cataracts heart disease or memory or
even wrinkles if you're experiencing
anything like this go see your doctor
immediately even if it's not related to
your diet living in constant pain is
never okay
[Music]
number eight craving sweet foods you
might not know this but our bodies
develop a sort of dependency on sugar
and we get more and more addicted the
more sugar we consume
that's because eating sweet sugary foods
releases dopamine which is the chemical
that controls the brain's reward and
pleasure centers simply put our brains
see sugar as a reward or a treat and the
more sugar you eat the more your body
craves it so next thing you know you're
in this vicious addictive cycle plus
food high in sugar won't make you feel
full because it doesn't contain any
useful nutrients which is why you often
feel hungry even if you just ate a big
delicious sugary muffin like half an
hour ago so whenever you want something
sugar you eat an apple a pear or any
other fruit with natural sugars these
alternatives are both healthy and
effective at stopping those sugar
cravings
number seven energy highs and lows
don't get the wrong idea or anything
sugar in the right amount is good for
you because glucose is what supplies
your body with energy but any deviation
from proper levels can lead to energy
yo-yoing throughout the day when you eat
sweet stuff the pancreas releases
insulin to help bring glucose to the
cells giving you a rush of energy once
the cycle ends though your energy levels
drop because your body wants more sugar
and this can start a never-ending cycle
of overeating sugar in order to stay
energized if you don't want to end up in
that trap don't reach for the sugary
stuff and instead go for lean proteins
and healthy fats healthy foods like
these will give you the real energy your
body needs without causing unpleasant
energy spikes and crashes
number six constant skin breakouts now
here's a sign your body sends that's
impossible to ignore because it'll be
right on your face we mentioned earlier
that too much glucose in the blood can
lead to inflammation
well acne is a type of inflammation of
the skin this insulin boost from your
pancreas can increase the activity of
your skin's oil glands and voila
meet your new pimple so if your unruly
skin is bothering you and no acne
treatment out there seems to help try
changing your eating habits it doesn't
mean that you should cut sugar from your
life completely but you might want to
consume fewer foods that contain added
sugar when you see the change you won't
want to go back to the sweet stuff ever
again
[Music]
number 5 weight gain another hard to
ignore consequence of eating too much
sugar is weight gain it's never a
pleasant surprise to find that your
jeans feel a lot tighter around the
waist is it and even that chocolate cake
you ate a week ago can backfire in such
a nasty way
it doesn't even necessarily mean that
you're just eating a little too much
sugar it can be a sign that you're
seriously overdosing on it remember that
a high level of sugar increases the
production of insulin which stores
excess fat around your belly rather than
some other place again sugar shouldn't
become your worst enemy just know your
limits and control yourself
number four toothpick I
sweet foods ain't arguably promote the
formation of cavities and tooth decay
but it's not the sugar alone that makes
her teeth rot
it's the debris from the foods left in
your teeth after you eat if not brushed
away properly food debris causes the
appearance of plaque on your teeth
which erodes the tooths hard enamel
surface resulting in tiny holes
different sugary foods like candy kids
cereal or breath mints can get stuck in
hard-to-reach spots between your teeth
speeding up the process of decay always
make sure to brush and floss your teeth
properly use an antibacterial mouthwash
and visit your dentist regularly
number three a high sugar tolerance when
you eat a lot of sugary foods your taste
buds get used to the same level of
sweetness over time and might not
respond to it like they used to
excess sugar dulls your palate so sweet
fruits and berries don't taste as sweet
to you as they should and that's a real
shame because there's nothing better
than the true taste of a juicy apple or
a delicious fruit salad
so if naturally sweet foods just don't
really cut it and you need super-sweet
junk food in order to satisfy your taste
buds try cutting down on artificial
sugary additives and switch to a
well-balanced diet after some time
you'll see a difference number two
frequent colds and flu eating or
drinking too much sugar stops the white
blood cells of the immune system from
attacking foreign bodies when you get
sick you see the vitamin C that your
body needs to fight illnesses is very
similar in its chemical structure to
glucose so instead of looking for and
working with vitamin C your immune
system tries to use glucose which
doesn't help much since it has zero
power against bacteria and viruses
therefore instead of fighting off a
sickness your immune system suffers from
it to keep your immune system
functioning the way it should cut down
on sugar when you're at risk of getting
a cold or the flu and eat more
nutrient-rich fruits and vegetables that
contain vitamin C and E as well as
beta-carotene and zinc this will help
your system win the battle number one
feeling bloated bloating and painful gas
along with other digestive discomfort
can be caused by different foods and
those high in sugar are among them
that's because bloating is directly
connected in what you eat and how your
body can digest it if sugar isn't
absorbed into the small intestine and
not all of it will if there's too much
it'll enter the large intestine where it
usually acts like a gas producing
bacteria too much sugar can easily wreak
havoc on your gut so try to avoid
artificial sweeteners diet coke and
sugary snacks there are plenty of other
foods that'll make you feel way better
and that's the most important okay
now that we've gone through all the
possible symptoms of sugar overdosing
that begs the question exactly how much
sugar is too much according to the World
Health Organization the recommended dose
of sugar should be less than 10% of your
daily energy intake this daily 10% is
about two tablespoons of sugar and
remember it's always better to get this
daily amount from natural products like
fruits vegetables nuts or whole grain
cereals when you eat healthy you feel
healthy so make the right food choices
for yourself and you'll feel amazing
every single day what about you do you
consume a lot of sugar if not what
helped you get it up tell us in the
comment section below don't forget to
share this video with all your sweet
tooth friends this is definitely
something they need to know stay on the
bright side of life and we'll see you
soon
[Music]
you